# Secret Network Light Client

## Secret CLI

`secretcli` is the command-line interface tool for interacting with nodes running on the Secret Network.

[How to install and use `secretcli`](/cli/install-cli.md).

- [Secret Network Light Client](#secret-network-light-client)
  - [Secret CLI](#secret-cli)
    - [Keys](#keys)
      - [Key Types](#key-types)
      - [Generate Keys](#generate-keys)
      - [Generate Multisig Public Keys](#generate-multisig-public-keys)
    - [Tx Broadcasting](#tx-broadcasting)
    - [Fees & Gas](#fees-gas)
    - [Account](#account)
      - [Get Tokens](#get-tokens)
      - [Query Account Balance](#query-account-balance)
    - [Send Tokens](#send-tokens)
    - [Query Transactions](#query-transactions)
      - [Matching a Set of Events](#matching-a-set-of-events)
      - [Matching a Transaction Hash](#matching-a-transaction-hash)
    - [Secret Contracts](#secret-contracts)
      - [Uploading a Secret Contract](#uploading-a-secret-contract)
      - [Deploying a Secret Contract](#deploying-a-secret-contract)
      - [Executing a Secret Contract](#executing-a-secret-contract)
      - [Reading the output of a Secret Contract tx](#reading-the-output-of-a-secret-contract-tx)
      - [Querying a Secret Contract](#querying-a-secret-contract)
    - [Slashing](#slashing)
    - [Minting](#minting)
    - [Staking](#staking)
    - [Nodes](#nodes)
    - [Governance](#governance)
    - [Fee Distribution](#fee-distribution)
      - [Query Distribution Parameters](#query-distribution-parameters)
      - [Query Distribution Community Pool](#query-distribution-community-pool)
      - [Query Outstanding Validator rewards](#query-outstanding-validator-rewards)
      - [Query Validator Commission](#query-validator-commission)
      - [Query Validator Slashes](#query-validator-slashes)
      - [Query Delegator Rewards](#query-delegator-rewards)
      - [Query All Delegator Rewards](#query-all-delegator-rewards)
    - [Multisig Transactions](#multisig-transactions)
  - [Shells Completion Scripts](#shells-completion-scripts)

### Keys

#### Key Types

There are four types of key representations:

- `secret`
  - Derived from account keys generated by `secretcli keys add`
  - Used to receive funds
  - e.g. `secret15h6vd5f0wqps26zjlwrc6chah08ryu4hzzdwhc`

- `secretvaloper`
  - Used to associate a validator to it's operator
  - Used to invoke staking commands
  - e.g. `secretvaloper1carzvgq3e6y3z5kz5y6gxp3wpy3qdrv928vyah`

- `secretpub`
  - Derived from account keys generated by `secretcli keys add`
  - e.g. `secretpub1zcjduc3q7fu03jnlu2xpl75s2nkt7krm6grh4cc5aqth73v0zwmea25wj2hsqhlqzm`

- `secretvalconspub`
  - Generated when the node is created with `secretd init`.
  - Get this value with `secretd tendermint show-validator`
  - e.g. `secretvalconspub1zcjduepq0ms2738680y72v44tfyqm3c9ppduku8fs6sr73fx7m666sjztznqzp2emf`

#### Generate Keys

You'll need a private account and public key pair \(a.k.a. `sk, pk` respectively)\ to be able to receive funds, send txs, bond txs, etc.

To generate a new _secp256k1_ key:

```bash
secretcli keys add <key-alias>
```

The output of the above command contains a _seed phrase_. It's recommended to save the _seed phrase_ in a safe place in case you forget the password of the operating system's credentials store. 

You can regenerate the key from the seed phrase with the following command:

```bash
secretcli keys add --recover <key-alias>
```

You can also backup your key using `export` — which outputs to _stderr_:

_(copy and paste to a `<key-export-file>`)_

```bash
secretcli keys export <key-alias>
```

and import it with:

```bash
secretcli keys import <key-alias> <key-export-file>
```

If you check your private keys, you'll now see `<key-alias>`:

```bash
secretcli keys show <key-alias>
```

If you want to just see your secret address:

```bash
secretcli keys show <key-alias> -a
```

View the validator operator's address via:

```bash
secretcli keys show <key-alias> --bech=val
```

You can see all your available keys by typing:

```bash
secretcli keys list
```

View the validator pubkey for your node by typing:

```bash
secretd tendermint show-validator
```

Note: this is the Tendermint signing key, _not_ the operator key you will use in delegation transactions.

::: danger Warning
We strongly recommend _NOT_ using the same passphrase for multiple keys. The Tendermint team and the Interchain Foundation will not be responsible for the loss of funds.
:::

#### Generate Multisig Public Keys

You can generate and print a multisig public key by typing:

```bash
secretcli keys add --multisig=name1,name2,name3[...] --multisig-threshold=K <new-key-alias>
```

`K` is the minimum number of private keys that must have signed the
transactions carrying the public key's address as a signer.

The `--multisig` flag must contain the name of public keys to be combined into a
public key that will be generated and stored as `new-key-alias` in the local database.

All names supplied through `--multisig` must already exist in the local database. Unless
the flag `--nosort` is set. The order of the supplied keys on the command line
does not matter, i.e. the following commands generate two identical keys:

```bash
secretcli keys add --multisig=foo,bar,baz --multisig-threshold=2 <multisig-address>
secretcli keys add --multisig=baz,foo,bar --multisig-threshold=2 <multisig-address>
```

Multisig addresses can also be generated on-the-fly and printed by typing:

```bash
secretcli keys show --multisig-threshold K name1 name2 name3 [...]
```

For more information on generating, signing and broadcasting transactions using multiple signatures see [Multisig Transactions](#multisig-transactions).

### Tx Broadcasting

When broadcasting transactions, `secretcli` accepts a `--broadcast-mode` flag. This
flag can have a value of `sync` (default), `async`, or `block`, where `sync` makes
the client return a CheckTx response, `async` makes the client return immediately,
and `block` makes the client wait for the tx to be committed (or timing out).

It is important to note, that the `block` mode should **not** be used in most
circumstances because broadcasting can timeout, but the tx may still be
included in a block. This can result in many undesirable situations. Therefore, it
is best to use `sync` or `async` and query by tx hash to determine when the tx
is included in a block.

### Fees & Gas

Each transaction supplies fees or gas prices, but never both.

Validator's have a minimum gas price (multi-denom) configuration used to determine if they should include a transaction in a block during `CheckTx`, where `gasPrices >= minGasPrices`. 

**Note**: Transactions must supply fees greater than or equal to **any** fees set by validators. Validators may start to prioritize
txs by `gasPrice` in the mempool, increasing tx priority based on fees or gas prices. 

e.g.

```bash
secretcli tx send ... --fees=50000uscrt
```

or

```bash
secretcli tx send ... --gas-prices=0.0125uscrt
```

### Account

#### Get Tokens

On a testnet, getting tokens is usually done via a faucet. You can get tokens for testing purposes using the Secret Network faucet [HERE](https://faucet.secrettestnet.io/)

#### Query Account Balance

After receiving tokens to your address, you can view your account's balance by typing:

```bash
secretcli q account <secret-address>
```

Get your `<secret-address>` using:

```bash
secretcli keys show -a <key-alias>
```

(the _-a_ flag is used to display the address only)

You can also supply your address with the following command:

```bash
secretcli q account $(secretcli keys show -a <key-alias>)
```

::: warning Note
When querying an account balance with zero tokens, you will get the error: `No account with address <secret-address> was found in the state.` This can also happen if you fund the account before your node is fully synced. These are both normal.

### Send Tokens

Use the following command to send tokens from one account to another:

```bash
secretcli tx send <sender-key-alias-or-address> <recipient-address> 10uscrt \
	--memo <tx-memo> \
	--chain-id=<chain-id>
```

::: warning Note
The `amount` argument accepts the format `<value|coin_name>`.
:::

::: tip Note
You may want to cap the maximum gas consumed by transactions via the `--gas` flag.

If you pass `--gas=auto`, the gas supply is automatically estimated before transaction execution.

Innacurrate gas estimates may occur inbetween the end of the simulation and the actual execution of a transaction. An adjustment needs to be applied on top of the original estimate for the transaction to be broadcasted successfully. Adjustment are controlled via the `--gas-adjustment` flag, with a default value of 1.0.
:::

To view updated balances of origin and destination accounts use:

```bash
secretcli q account <secret-address>
secretcli q account <recipient-address>
```

You can also check balances at any block using the `--block` flag:

```bash
secretcli q account <secret-address> --block=<block_height>
```

You can simulate a transaction without actually broadcasting it by appending the
`--dry-run` flag:

```bash
secretcli tx send <sender-key-alias-or-address> <recipient-address> 10uscrt \
  --chain-id=<chain-id> \
  --dry-run
```

Furthermore, you can build a transaction and print its JSON format to STDOUT by
appending `--generate-only` to the list of arguments:

```bash
secretcli tx send <sender-key-alias-or-address> <recipient-address> 10uscrt \
  --chain-id=<chain-id> \
  --generate-only > unsignedSendTx.json
```

```bash
secretcli tx sign \
  --chain-id=<chain-id> \
  --from=<key-alias> \
  unsignedSendTx.json > signedSendTx.json
```

::: tip Note
The `--generate-only` flag prevents `secretcli` from accessing the local keybase.
When the flag is supplied `<sender-key-alias-or-address>` must be an address.
:::

You can validate transaction signatures by typing the following:

```bash
secretcli tx sign --validate-signatures --from=<key-alias> signedSendTx.json
```

You can broadcast the signed transaction to a node by providing the JSON file using:

```bash
secretcli tx broadcast --node=<node> signedSendTx.json
```

### Query Transactions

#### Matching a Set of Events

Use the transaction search command to query for transactions matching a specific set of `events`, which are added on every transaction.

Each event contains a key-value pair in the form of `{eventType}.{eventAttribute}={value}`.

Events can be combined to query for more specific results using the `&` symbol.

You can query transactions by `events` as follows:

```bash
secretcli q txs --events='message.sender=secret1...'
```

And for using multiple `events`:

```bash
secretcli q txs --events='message.sender=secret1...&message.action=withdraw_delegator_reward'
```

The pagination is supported as well via `page` and `limit`:

```bash
secretcli q txs --events='message.sender=secret1...' --page=1 --limit=20
```

::: tip Note

The action tag always equals the message type returned by the `Type()` function of the relevant message.

You can find a list of available `events` on each of the SDK modules:

- [Staking events](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/staking/spec/07_events.md)
- [Governance events](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/gov/spec/04_events.md)
- [Slashing events](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/slashing/spec/06_events.md)
- [Distribution events](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/distribution/spec/06_events.md)
- [Bank events](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/bank/spec/04_events.md)
  :::

#### Matching a Transaction Hash

You can also query a single transaction by its hash using the following command:

```bash
secretcli q tx [hash]
```

### Secret Contracts

#### Uploading a Secret Contract

To upload a contract:

```bash
secretcli tx compute store ./contract.wasm.gz --from mykey --source "https://github.com/<username>/<repo>/tarball/<version>" --builder "enigmampc/secret-contract-optimizer:1.0.2"
```

- `--source`: Optional tarball of the source code, so that your contract will be [verifiable](https://github.com/CosmWasm/cosmwasm-verify).
- `--builder`: Optional docker image that was used to compile `./contract.wasm.gz`, so that your contract will be [verifiable](https://github.com/CosmWasm/cosmwasm-verify).

To get the contract's code ID:

```bash
secretcli q tx [hash]
```

#### Deploying a Secret Contract

```bash
secretcli tx compute instantiate $CODE_ID "$INIT_INPUT_MSG" --from mykey --label "$UNIQUE_LABEL"
```

To get the contract's address:

```bash
secretcli q tx [hash]
```

#### Executing a Secret Contract

```bash
secretcli tx compute execute $CONTRACT_ADDRESS "$EXEC_INPUT_MSG"
```

Or:

```bash
secretcli tx compute execute --label "$UNIQUE_LABEL" "$EXEC_INPUT_MSG"
```

#### Reading the output of a Secret Contract tx

```bash
secretcli q compute tx [hash]
```

#### Querying a Secret Contract

```bash
secretcli q compute query $CONTRACT_ADDRESS "$QUERY_INPUT_MSG"
```

### Slashing

::: tip Note
You can find Slashing related CLI commands under
[Validators/Slashing](join-validator-mainnet.md#Slashing).
:::

### Minting

You can query for the minting/inflation parameters via:

```bash
secretcli q mint params
```

To query for the current inflation value:

```bash
secretcli q mint inflation
```

To query for the current annual provisions value:

```bash
secretcli q mint annual-provisions
```

### Staking

::: tip Note
You can find CLI commands related to delegating under
[Delegate](delegating-mainnet.md).
:::

### Nodes

If you are running a full node or a validator node, view the status by typing:

```bash
secretcli status
```

[How to run a full node on mainnet](run-full-node-mainnet.md).

### Governance

Governance is the process from which users in the Secret Network can come to consensus
on software upgrades, parameters of the mainnet or signaling mechanisms through
text proposals. This is done through voting on proposals, which will be submitted
by `SCRT` holders on the mainnet.

[How to participate in on-chain governance](../protocol/governance.md).

### Fee Distribution

#### Query Distribution Parameters

To check the current distribution parameters, run:

```bash
secretcli q distribution params
```

#### Query Distribution Community Pool

To query all coins in the community pool which is under Governance control:

```bash
secretcli q distribution community-pool
```

#### Query Outstanding Validator rewards

To check the current outstanding (un-withdrawn) rewards, run:

```bash
secretcli q distribution validator-outstanding-rewards <validator-address>
```

#### Query Validator Commission

To check the current outstanding commission for a validator, run:

```bash
secretcli q distribution commission <validator-operator-address>
```

#### Query Validator Slashes

To check historical slashes for a validator, run:

```bash
secretcli q distribution slashes <validator-operator-address> <start-height> <end-height>
```

#### Query Delegator Rewards

To check current rewards for a delegation (were they to be withdrawn), run:

```bash
secretcli q distribution rewards <delegator-address> <validator-address>
```

#### Query All Delegator Rewards

To check all current rewards for a delegation (were they to be withdrawn), run:

```bash
secretcli q distribution rewards <delegator-address>
```

### Multisig Transactions

Multisig transactions require signatures of multiple private keys. Thus, generating and signing a transaction from a multisig account involve cooperation among the parties involved. A multisig transaction can be initiated by any of the key holders, and at least one of them would need to import other parties' public keys into their Keybase and generate a multisig public key in order to finalize and broadcast the transaction.

For example, given a multisig key comprising the keys `p1`, `p2`, and `p3`, each of which is held by a distinct party, the user holding `p1` would require to import both `p2` and `p3` in order to generate the multisig account public key:

```bash
secretcli keys add \
  p2 \
  --pubkey=secretpub1addwnpepqtd28uwa0yxtwal5223qqr5aqf5y57tc7kk7z8qd4zplrdlk5ez5kdnlrj4

secretcli keys add \
  p3 \
  --pubkey=secretpub1addwnpepqgj04jpm9wrdml5qnss9kjxkmxzywuklnkj0g3a3f8l5wx9z4ennz84ym5t

secretcli keys add \
  p1p2p3 \
  --multisig-threshold=2 \
  --multisig=p1,p2,p3
```

A new multisig public key `p1p2p3` has been stored, and its address will be
used as signer of multisig transactions:

```bash
secretcli keys show p1p2p3 -a
```

You may also view multisig threshold, pubkey constituents and respective weights
by viewing the JSON output of the key or passing the `--show-multisig` flag:

```bash
secretcli keys show p1p2p3 -o json

secretcli keys show p1p2p3 --show-multisig
```

The first step to create a multisig transaction is to initiate it on behalf
of the multisig address created above:

```bash
secretcli tx send secret1570v2fq3twt0f0x02vhxpuzc9jc4yl30q2qned 1000000uscrt \
  --from=<multisig-address> \
  --generate-only > unsignedTx.json
```

The file `unsignedTx.json` contains the unsigned transaction encoded in JSON.
`p1` can now sign the transaction with its own private key:

```bash
secretcli tx sign \
  unsignedTx.json \
  --multisig=<multisig-address> \
  --from=p1 \
  --output-document=p1signature.json
```

Once the signature is generated, `p1` transmits both `unsignedTx.json` and
`p1signature.json` to `p2` or `p3`, which in turn will generate their
respective signature:

```bash
secretcli tx sign \
  unsignedTx.json \
  --multisig=<multisig-address> \
  --from=p2 \
  --output-document=p2signature.json
```

`p1p2p3` is a 2-of-3 multisig key, therefore one additional signature
is sufficient. Any the key holders can now generate the multisig
transaction by combining the required signature files:

```bash
secretcli tx multisign \
  unsignedTx.json \
  p1p2p3 \
  p1signature.json p2signature.json > signedTx.json
```

The transaction can now be sent to the node:

```bash
secretcli tx broadcast signedTx.json
```

## Shells Completion Scripts

Completion scripts for popular UNIX shell interpreters such as `Bash` and `Zsh`
can be generated through the `completion` command, which is available for both
`secretd` and `secretcli`.

If you want to generate `Bash` completion scripts run the following command:

```bash
secretd completion > secretd_completion
secretcli completion > secretcli_completion
```

If you want to generate `Zsh` completion scripts run the following command:

```bash
secretd completion --zsh > secretd_completion
secretcli completion --zsh > secretcli_completion
```

::: tip Note
On most UNIX systems, such scripts may be loaded in `.bashrc` or
`.bash_profile` to enable Bash autocompletion:

```bash
echo '. secretd_completion' >> ~/.bashrc
echo '. secretcli_completion' >> ~/.bashrc
```

Refer to the user's manual of your interpreter provided by your
operating system for information on how to enable shell autocompletion.
:::
