# v1.11

## Secret Network v1.11 Instructions <a href="#secret-network-v1-11-upgrade-instructions" id="secret-network-v1-11-upgrade-instructions"></a>

### ⚠️ IMPORTANT NOTES ⚠️ <a href="#important-notes" id="important-notes"></a>

* All coordination efforts will be done in the "SN Validators" Telegram group.
* Make sure to [backup your validator](../running-a-node-validator/maintaining-a-node-validator/validator-backup.md) before making any changes.
* :warning: The v1.11 upgrade will **NOT** include rocksdb binaries. We kindly ask anyone still running rocksdb to switch to goleveldb ASAP to avoid problems during the upgrade.
* **Please read carefully before you begin the upgrade.**

## Upgrading Manually <a href="#upgrading-manually" id="upgrading-manually"></a>

:warning: Note: The below instructions assume default installation. **DO NOT COPY-PASTE** if `config.toml` is not in `~/.secretd/config/config.toml` or if you modified `/etc/systemd/system/secret-node.service`. If you have modified `/etc/systemd/system/secret-node.service`, you will need to re-apply those changes post installation and pre service restart.

When the network reaches the halt height 10,824,000, you'll see this message in your node's log (`journalctl -fu secret-node`):

```bash
2:00PM ERR UPGRADE "v1.11" NEEDED at height: 10824000:
2:00PM ERR CONSENSUS FAILURE!!! err="UPGRADE \"v1.11\" NEEDED at height: 10824000
```

Then, the upgrade steps for v1.11 are:

```bash
# Backup your node's SGX secrets
cp -a /opt/secret/.sgx_secrets ~/sgx_secrets_backup
mkdir 110backup
cp ~/.secretd/.node/* 110backup/


# Get the v1.11 binaries
wget "https://github.com/scrtlabs/SecretNetwork/releases/download/v1.11.0/secretnetwork_1.11.0_mainnet_goleveldb_amd64.deb"

# Verify the v1.11 binaries
echo '60fcc57ff1cf1479255083cc4752de32ed776f059e9a11cde915277e379577a3 secretnetwork_1.11.0_mainnet_goleveldb_amd64.deb' |
    sha256sum --check

# Stop the v1.10 node
sudo systemctl stop secret-node

# Install the v1.11 binaries
sudo apt install -y "./secretnetwork_1.11.0_mainnet_goleveldb_amd64.deb"

# re-apply any systemd unit file customizations

# Restart the node
sudo systemctl restart secret-node
```

After restarting the node with v1.11, you should see `INF applying upgrade "v1.11" at height: 10824000` in the logs (`journalctl -fu secret-node`). Once 67% of voting power comes online, you'll see blocks executing again.

## Upgrading Automatically Using Cosmovisor <a href="#upgrading-automatically-using-cosmovisor" id="upgrading-automatically-using-cosmovisor"></a>

Cosmovisor is a new process manager for cosmos blockchains. It can make low-downtime upgrades smoother, as validators don't have to manually upgrade binaries during the upgrade, and instead can pre-install new binaries, and Cosmovisor will automatically update them based on on-chain SoftwareUpgrade proposals.

⚠️ Cosmovisor is still new and best practices for using it are not yet established. If you don't feel adventurous at this time, we recommend [upgrading the manual way](v1.11.md#upgrading-manually).

For instructions on how to setup Cosmovisor, go [here](cosmovisor.md).

## Details of Upgrade Time <a href="#details-of-upgrade-time" id="details-of-upgrade-time"></a>

When the network reaches the halt height 10,824,000, the Secret Network blockchain will be halted and validators will need to take action to upgrade the chain to the secretd v1.11 binary (be it manually or automatically).

The proposal targets the upgrade proposal block to be 10,824,000, anticipated to be on Tuesday September 26, 2023 at 12:45PM UTC.

The upgrade is anticipated to take approx 30 minutes, during which time, there will not be any on-chain activity on the network.

## In Case of an Upgrade Failure <a href="#in-case-of-an-upgrade-failure" id="in-case-of-an-upgrade-failure"></a>

In the event of an issue at upgrade time, we should coordinate via the "SN Validators" Telegram group.

If as a result of a software bug the network fails to produce new blocks with the v1.11 binaries, the SCRT Labs team will distribute a v1.10 binary with an empty v1.11 upgrade handler, which will allow the chain to revert to v1.10 while continuing to produce new blocks.
