# Privacy Comparison

## Privacy for blockchain

Cryptocurrency in its original vision has always meant to provide a private way of p2p interaction but lately this visions has become further and further from the truth. Although blockchain still has a pseudonymous structure it has become harder and harder for users to keep their real life identity locked away from their cryptocurrency wallet. Know Your Customer (KYC) regulations for Centralized Exchanges (CEX), Profile picture NFTs, Chainanalysis by large players and data harvesting on public APIs, wallet providers and Cryptocurrency social accounts all form risks for the privacy of single users.&#x20;

Anyone's personal finances have never been part of the public information but with the growing blockchain adoption this has become somewhat of a reality for a lot of users. Transactional and computational privacy projects in blockchain try to solve this issue with novel encryption technology and specialized hardware. Longstanding projects like Monero (XMR), Zcash (ZEC) and Secret Network (SCRT) are now joined with just as innovative projects like DERO, Penumbra, NYM and many others.&#x20;

In this article we try to explain the differences between some of the major privacy focused blockchain projects. We specifically focus on the differences of these projects with Secret Network and try to be as honest as possible about both advantages and disadvantages of the technology stack and network architecture. If anywhere during below article you think something is incorrect or missing then feel free to contact us using the details at the bottom.

## Transactional vs computational privacy

First and foremost it is important we distinguish between 2 goals of privacy networks which might or might not be mutually exclusive. Transactional privacy describes how a user can transact with another user using the decentralized network while preserving full privacy. full privacy can be denoted as not giving away your public key, balance and metadata of the trade to either an observer of the chain or the counterparty in the transaction. Examples for networks with full transactional privacy are Monero, DERO, Zcash and Anoma.&#x20;

A blockchain focused on transactional privacy often does not have the ability to also do private smart contract computation, much like Bitcoin does not have smart contracts while Ethereum does. Computational privacy is the label given to smart contract operations which are either fully private or have private metadata which make it so a user can perform P2P or contract interactions which are more than transactions. Forms of smart contract computations are using a Decentralized Exchange (DEX), Minting an Non-Fungible-Token (NFT) or attacking a player in a Blockchain game. Examples of projects that achieve or are developing computational privacy include Secret Network, DUSK and Oasis.

## Privacy Technologies

### Encryption - Key management

First of all we want to cover some ground on general encryption terminology and techniques. In this section we will discuss what Hashing is, how encryption works and go over both symmetric and asymmetric key derivation techniques.

#### Hashing

Hashing is the process of transforming arbitrary sized data to an output of a constant size. Several types of hash functions exist which all achieve the same goal, generalize a range of inputs into a consistent sized output. The values returned by a hash function dubbed "hashes" can be used as an index in a storage system called a "hash table" to retrieve the original input. Hashing is used in cryptography to reduce potential information leaks coming from data size and computing time. Hashing functions operate in something called "constant time", the generation of a hash is not dependent on the size or complexity of the input. This removes the possibility for outsiders to deduce information from the computation speed of certain applications. Hashes are deterministic in nature, using the same input and same hash function generates the same result. This makes it so that hashes are widely adopted for storage in various applications. Because of the deterministic nature hashes are also unique and comparable much like comparing the original data. These features are used in basically all blockchain projects to achieve immutability in the chain record.

#### Key derivation

A key in cryptography refers to a standardized string which can be used to do encryption tasks or verification. Keys are generated by a Key Derivation Function (KDF) following certain input, like a password, passphrase or a random seed. Key generation can be either deterministic or pseudo-random in nature, both tailoring to different use cases. Keys are widely used in blockchain, the private/public key pair for your wallet for example is the output of a asymmetric KDF. Asymmetric KDFs generate two encryption keys, the public key can be used to encrypt messages but only the private key can be used to decrypt the data. Symmetric KDF functions instead have only one key as output which is used to both encrypt and decrypt the data. Symmetric encryption keys can not be shared in public channels however, protocols may use asymmetric encryption to share symmetric keys. The Diffie-Helman (DH) key exchange is a protocol using two asymmetric key pairs to generate shared secrets. The basis of the DH key exchange is that the use of public key A and private key B for encryption generates the same output when using private key A and public key B. In this example A and B are both asymmetric keypairs. The shared combined key can be used to encrypt data which can be freely shared publicly as only the owners of the private keys A and B can decrypt any information.

#### Encryption

Encryption is the process in which information is encoded/transformed so that it no longer can be deciphered without special access. To decipher encrypted information one would need access to the encryption key. Messages would be possible to decrypt by chance seeing as many encryption schemes use pseudorandom techniques, with enough tries one may find the answer to the puzzle. In reality the computational power and time needed to decrypt the most standard encryption schemes and the often alternation of encryption keys makes the encryption standards nowadays very safe. Not all encryption schemes have the same security level, an important concept is the bit-size of the keys used for encryption. Encryption keys consisting of more characters would be harder to guess for computers hard-forcing the encryption leading to better security. It is also important that the KDF which generates the encryption key uses a random initialization with significant entropy so that one can not hard-force the generation of the encryption key. There are several different encryption schemes for both public key cryptography, symmetric cryptography and hashing.

#### Conclusion

Three different encryption classes exist: no key (hashing), one private key (symmetric) and public/private key pair (asymmetric). Hashing and symmetric encryption is deterministic in nature, the security comes from the pseudorandom initialization of the algorithm. public key cryptography (asymmetric) is always non-deterministic in nature. The encryption classes only refer to the type of KDF used but for every class multiple encryption schemes exist. To make encryption safe it is important that the KDF uses significant entropy and that one generates long encryption keys. Sharing encryption keys is a hard task without leaking information, this problem is what makes private decentralized systems inherently hard.

### Zero knowledge proofs

A zero knowledge proof is a way of showing a party (the verifier) that what another party states (the prover) is true without conveying any additional information to the verifier besides that the statement is indeed true. Proofs like these are often constructed using iteration. One can set up a proof where the chance of succeeding is 50% if one has no information but 100% if the prover has the necessary information. By reiterating this task multiple times the verifier can be sure the prover fulfills the statements in the Zero knowledge proof. We distinguish two types of zero knowledge proofs: Interactive, the prover reacts to challenges till the verifier is satisfied with the answer and Non -interactive: a proof delivered by the prover can only be verified once at any time by the verifier. Both methods should have completeness (if information is true than the ZKP reveals this), soundness (if the information is false than the ZKP lets the verifier refute), zero-knowledge ( the verifier should gain no information beyond true or false). For blockchain several non-interactive ZKPs have been implemented, we will discuss some of those methods below.

* Zero-Knowledge Succinct Non-Interactive Argument of Knowledge | zk-SNARK (dusk, zcash)
* Bulletproofs | (monero, mimblewimble)
* zero-knowledge Scalable Transparent ARgument of Knowledge | zk-STARK

### Homomorphic encryption

Coming Soon

### Multi Party Computational

coming soon

### TEE

Coming Soon

### Other privacy technologies

* Mixing
* stealth addresses
* ring signatures
* shielding
* Viewing keys
* permits

## Secret network (SCRT) - semi-transactional privacy & Computational privacy - Mainnet

***

## Monero (XMR)- Transactional privacy - Mainnet

**Design:** Monero is a Proof of Work (POW) blockchain with full transactional privacy launched in .... . Monero uses a combination of Bulletproofs, ring signatures and ... to grant users privacy for their transactions. Monero is often deemed the private version of Bitcoin and does not offer smart contracts computation. Monero differentiates from Bitcoin not only with the provided privacy but also with the mining mechanism and token inflation metrics. CPUs are the most effective way to mine Monero causing a different distribution of hashing power amongst many more smaller users. While Bitcoin supply is set to a maximum of 21 million, Monero supply will infinitely increase via tail block rewards guaranteeing the miner incentives. The XMR token is 100% fungible as a token does not have a traceable path of transactions like on Bitcoin due to its private nature

**Privacy Technology:** Monero relies on ring signatures to disguise what is really happening on the chain. A ring signature is a mechanism by which every transaction on the blockchain is not only signed by the initiator but also by a set number of other random public keys. These other signers are copies of actual network participants and their transactions. This way it can still be confirmed that every block is valid without indicating the balance or direction of every transaction. The number of signers in a ring signature is very important for privacy yet increases the computational difficulty of any single transaction, this dilemma between scalability and privacy is core to Monero's infrastructure. "something about Monero decryption in a full node" "something about bulletproofs" "something about fake addresses"

Trust and privacy assumptions:

* Ring signatures only provide a decoy but there is no true privacy
* Required to use your own full node to make transactions private
* Monero forks and old transactions may yield high probability to find out what is happening in current transactions
* Malicious actors can fill the chain with many of their own transactions to yield information on other transactions.

## Zcash (ZEC) - Transactional privacy - Mainnet

## Dusk (DUSK) - Computational privacy - Mainnet

## Phala (PHA) - Privacy for cloud computing - Mainnet

## NYM (NYM) - Private web interaction - Mainnet

## Tornado cash - reprivatizing assets - Mainnet

## Oasis (ROSE) - Computational Privacy - Testnet

## Dero (DERO) - Transactional privacy and semi- computational Privacy - mainnet

## Haven - Transactional privacy - Mainnet

## Penumbra - Privacy for swaps in cosmos - In development

## Anoma- Privacy for bridging data and assets - In development

## Dash - Transactional privacy
